"Anxiety" is something akin to an instinct, you know.
— Shigesato Itoi

・So, was July 5th supposed to be a day of great upheaval?
  I'm glad you made it through without a hitch.
  We've had similar times before, haven't we?
  Perhaps on a grander scale.
  Remember Nostradamus’ predictions?
  They said something monumental would happen in the seventh month of 1999.
  It wasn't just the adults who loved tales of doom;
  even kids barely ten years old believed it.
  I'm pretty sure even "Chibi Maruko-chan" was on edge.
  The turn of the century itself felt like an omen of the "end times."
  After all, a calendar is just a series of markers placed across time.
  Back in the 1970s, doomsday theories were all the rage too.
  Ideas that humanity was destined to perish, that these were the end times,
  found some traction among so-called cultural intellectuals.
  There was even a magazine called "From the End Times."
  Truth be told, I was an avid reader of that quarterly,
  filled with all sorts of fascinating reads.
  I recall those intellectuals who appeared on TV,
  boldly declaring, "Bringing children into this world is irresponsible."

  People, like other creatures, are generally wired
  to feel anxiety keenly when something worrisome looms.
  It's an instinct to steer clear of danger.
  "Reassurance" doesn't come with signals.
  After all, it's just a flatline of nothing-changing.
  "Anxiety" is heralded by premonitions (or predictions) of safety unraveling.
  If a sign appears, something dire might happen,
  and even if it doesn’t, you should still be prepared.
  It's a matter of life and death, isn’t it?
  Even without evidence, those attuned to it will sense it.
  In a way, it becomes a business, which is a hassle.
  Purity, innocence, ignorance, and commerce all intertwine
  to create a "nest of anxiety."
  It's something you can't easily get rid of.
  It touches on the primal instincts of people.
  No doubt, before long, the next anxious prophecy will come around.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shinbun" today.
Throughout history, end-time theories have existed since ancient times, haven't they?