Expos are, above all, a bargain for the visitor.  
Shigesato Itoi

・It might have seemed a joke when I bought it, but yes, I was one of those who whimsically purchased a "season pass." Had I lived closer to Osaka, I'm sure I would have visited multiple times. My recent one-night, two-day "festival viewing" was enjoyable, though I didn't see most of the "attractions." I didn't visit any of the highly acclaimed pavilions, nor did I stop by the must-see spots everyone talks about. Instead, I wandered aimlessly, stopping at places I could enter without much effort or where I could rest and find a restroom. I visited on a whim, pleasantly enjoying my time. While I probably won't go multiple times myself, I can only commend those who plan to visit repeatedly.

Because at that expo site, there's a gathering of hope for the future, saying, "This is what we believe is great." There's pride saying, "Be impressed by this," boasting that says, "Look what we can do," concern asking, "How about this?" resignation admitting, "This is all we can do," and excuses wondering, "Will this be acceptable?" All these elements are collected there. In today's world, such things from around the globe are brought together to compete and collaborate in one place. People everywhere are thinking and discussing, "What will the future hold?" But there aren't many venues where one can confidently propose, "Isn't this the way forward?" Even if you were to create such a "venue for proposals," attracting an audience would be a tremendous task. Yet, under the conditions of an expo, you can manage it. Those participating have no choice but to get serious about it, even if they are clumsy or misguided. The expo site is a place where you can see all of that at once, whether you're impressed and think, "Wow, that's amazing!" or criticize and feel, "This is no good." For the visitor, it's undoubtedly a worthwhile experience.

Thank you for visiting "Hobonichi" again today.

You can become a fool watching the dancing fools and the observing fools all gathered together.*  

---

*The phrase "踊る阿呆に見る阿呆" (dancing fools and observing fools) is a well-known saying from Japanese traditional dance, implying that both participants and observers are foolish, yet it's all in good fun.