Come to think of it, even adults might not know.

Shigesato Itoi

・When it comes to favorite foods among elementary school kids, apparently fries rank first and ramen comes in second. Following those are fried chicken, hamburgers, sushi, curry rice, udon, omelets with rice, pizza, and fried rice. I’m not sure how this survey was conducted, but I have a feeling that the results would be similar no matter how you look at it. After all, they don't know that many different kinds of food. Sure, you might think of adding yakisoba or oden to the list, but I doubt it would make much of a difference. You can't like what you don't know, and you can't yearn for what you haven't heard of. Still, I think it's a bit presumptuous to decide that children don't know things just because they're young. Adults don't know everything either.

I think a similar logic applies to the top ten dream jobs for elementary school kids. For girls, the number one choice is a pastry chef, followed by office worker. After that, the list includes manga artist (or illustrator), doctor, singer (or idol), nurse, teacher, hairdresser, public servant, and chef. For boys, the number one choice is office worker, followed by YouTuber. Then come baseball player, soccer player, game creator, public servant, police officer, driver, IT engineer, doctor, and architect. I have no idea what know-it-all adults would say about this, but I think, well, kids haven't met people from all these professions. If you asked adults, "What jobs do you think exist?" they'd probably give similar answers. Most of them fall into the "office worker" category anyway.

You can't like food you've never tried, and you can't aspire to a job you've never heard of. So, I wonder, if you asked elementary school kids, "What kind of life do you want to lead?" what answers would they give? Chances are, neither kids nor adults have really thought about "what kinds of lives there are."

Thank you for visiting "Almost Daily" today. It wouldn't hurt to have more opportunities to talk about the kind of life we want to live.