Translation:
"Why are you thinking about this again in Kyoto?" I thought, but I'm back in Kyoto now. Tomorrow is a celebration for Ms. Kishida Nami's wedding, so I thought about writing something related to that, but I want to write something completely different. That's just how it is.

Now, about the escalator issue. When I talk about escalators in Tokyo, it always feels too serious, so I'd rather talk about it in Kyoto. I got the impression that not many people were riding the escalators at Kyoto Station. What I want to say is just one thing. When two people stand on one step, one on the right and one on the left, and just stand there, expecting to be carried up or down. Please don't block the way on either side. You can just let one side be a passageway. It seems to be originally designed that way. When one person forms a line on the left (or right) side, people who want to hurry will emerge and walk up or down on the right side. There are those who misunderstand and think it's a rule, and those who rush up in a hurry. However, this is a problem in terms of escalator mechanics, and it can lead to accidents involving both walkers and people around them. If we don't make a passageway for walkers, two times as many people can ride the escalator at the same time. When one line is congested, people will use the empty side. It would be better if we just had two lines from the start.

I imagine this is what happens at stations like Kanda-Kaji-cho, and I think I'd get a backlash like "I'm in a hurry!" But if I imagine foreign tourists visiting Kyoto, I can say, "That's just the rule in Japan." Even people who are busy at Kanda-Kaji-cho usually walk at a normal speed after getting off the escalator. I think it's better to have two lines and stand still while using the escalator, as it would make the overall flow smoother. Thank you for coming to "Almost Daily" today.

By the way, I might be confusing this with the "overtaking lane" on highways.

Note: Almost Daily is the name of the blog. "ほぼ日" is a play on words, with "ほぼ" meaning "almost" and "日" meaning "daily".