Translation:

The Matter of Not Being Stingy with One's Bones

Even if you want to be of use to people, 
it's not that simple to do so because what and how you should do it changes depending on the time and situation. 
In fact, the existence of people who try too hard to be of use can even become a nuisance. 
Similarly, even if you want to be liked by people, 
it's not like you can easily achieve that. 
That's because, when you think about it from the opposite perspective, 
it's often the case that the person who thinks "I like that person" is not the one who is trying to be liked. 
When you think too much about what to do and how to do it, 
you tend to become overly conscious and end up "aiming" for something. 
You might even resort to doing something unnecessary or using a strange method to achieve your goal. 
It's better to be careful about these things.

Still, I thought, wouldn't it be great if there were good habits that we could teach children, such as "it's good to do this"? 
This was something I had been thinking about for a long time without rushing. 
And now, I think I've finally found the answer: "it's about not being stingy with one's bones." 
People who are of use to others, people who are liked by others, people who are trusted by others, and people who are relied upon by others - none of them are trying to be that way. 
However, I think there's a common thread among them, and that is "not being stingy with one's bones." 
This means that, even if someone seems lazy or laid-back, they're actually doing various things and moving their bodies and minds quickly and smoothly. 
Or, they might be preparing things beforehand, even when no one is watching, and saying "I've already done that." 
Such actions naturally lead to being of use, being kind, and being considerate. 
"Not being stingy with one's bones" is a wonderful talent, one that's equal in value to any other. 
It's not something you have to force, and it can even become a habit. 
Thank you for coming to "almost daily" today. 
"Not being stingy with one's bones" and being "not bothered to do things" can coexist.

Note: 
〈骨惜しみしないということ〉 - This idiom literally means "not being stingy with one's bones," but it's used to describe someone who is willing to take action without being overly conscious or trying too hard. It implies a sense of naturalness and ease in one's movements and actions.