Isn't it nice, this thing called self-esteem?  
Shigesato Itoi

・I wonder when I first heard the term "self-esteem."  
  It can't have been too long ago—probably within the last decade.

  As a child, I was mostly taught by my parents and the era itself that I should make an effort to "deny" myself. Later, during my teenage years, when student movements were in full swing, the phrase "self-denial" became quite the trend. Saying it was a "trend" might sound a bit superficial, but even if it was dressed up in philosophical or social-scientific garb, I believe "self-denial" was more of an ideological fad. 

  Now, half a century later, the term "self-esteem" has emerged with a positive connotation, and we're being told it's something beneficial. Whether it’s the times that have changed, or I myself that have shifted, "self-esteem" started to make sense to me as a good thing. Alongside that realization, I also felt a pang of disappointment at my own lack of self-esteem. My thoughts tend to drift too easily towards self-negation. I wish I could be someone with just a bit more "self-esteem." It's quite different from being "conceited" or "full of oneself." You can sense that such people have been genuinely cherished by their families. Those individuals affirm not only themselves but others as well. The "be" in "Let it be" embodies that affirmation.

  It seems the "self-denial" ingrained in me resembles "humility" or "modesty," making it difficult to change. Yet, the people I know who possess "self-esteem" are often plenty humble and compassionate. I truly find that admirable.

  But if I start thinking, "I'm hopeless because I lack self-esteem," I’d just end up back in self-denial mode. Realizing that's not good for me, I know I shouldn't think that way. This just spirals into a vicious cycle. The phrase "This is fine the way it is," from Papa in "Tensai Bakabon," is a blessing. "Let it be" could be seen as the English translation of that sentiment.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nikkan" again today.  
No, I'm not feeling down. I'm writing because I have the leisure to do so.