The Art of Just Thinking  
Shigesato Itoi

・There are quite a few things you can do for free. Reading a book, if you borrow it, doesn't cost a thing. The internet, television—these are nearly free as well. But there's something even more free, something you should do more often: taking walks and thinking.

Now, I'm no expert on walking, so I can't say much about that. But I hear Kewl Rice is quite the walker. They take long strolls and use that time to think up ideas. I wonder if they still do it. It's admirable, but not something I feel I could easily imitate.

Regardless of such splendid walks, there's this free pastime I often indulge in—just thinking about stuff. It doesn't matter whether there's a purpose or not. Just by thinking, you can pass the time enjoyably, and if you remember your musings, they might even turn profitable later on.

"Thinking about stuff" isn't the same as fantasizing. Whether it's something that needs pondering or something completely trivial, just freely start thinking. It's really okay to think about "stuff." For instance, around this time of year, people think about snow. How to deal with tires, the troubles of heavy snowfall, and so on. From there, you can think more about "stuff" related to snow. It's really okay to think about "stuff," to freely explore your questions. Like, why is everyone focused on snow now, but not talking about cherry blossoms? Back in March and April, cherry blossoms were all the rage. Why not talk about them more, like we did then? How would it feel to look at a photo book of cherry blossoms now? Not just imagining summer because it's winter, but thinking about spring can be refreshing—and it's free. We talked so much about cherry blossoms back then, so there must be plenty of information. This train of thought can lead from one thing to another. This solitary game of "thinking about stuff" comes highly recommended.

Thank you for visiting "Almost Daily" again today. Playing with "thinking about stuff" is better than "overthinking."