The Matter of Having or Not Having a Hobby  
Shigesato Itoi

・My boss has recently become completely engrossed in calligraphy. I suspect she might be more dedicated to it than those who do it for a living. When she was passionate about weaving, I recall she produced quite a number of sashes and kimonos. Once she sets her mind on something, she dives in headfirst until she thoroughly understands it. I believe she inherited this trait from her late father. My father-in-law was said to be quite accomplished at Go and bowling. I remember him casually boasting about his skills, but I dismissed it as the usual self-praise. I also knew he took up haiku rather late in life and heard he won some accolades. Again, I didn't think much of it at the time, considering it just another common tale.

However, now that I've developed an interest in haiku myself, watching programs like "NHK Haiku," I realize just how remarkable it is to be among the five selected poems each week. Not to mention, having a poem chosen as the best is truly extraordinary. It's only now that I understand how impressive my father-in-law was. I should have praised him more. My boss also reflected, saying, "Neither my mother nor I ever complimented him." He seems to have learned haiku entirely on his own, without any teacher or group association, especially since he started it in his old age. He must have been incredibly dedicated.

Watching my boss immerse herself in calligraphy reminded me of all these things. "Getting lost in a hobby might be similar," she mused. "I don't have anything like that," I replied. She agreed, saying, "That's true," with a reflective sigh. Then she pondered and listed things like fishing or work, but none seemed to fit. Eventually, she seemed to have an epiphany. "What if your hobby is supporting people or things?" she suggested. Well, in that case, wouldn't that be "Hobonichi"?*

Thank you for visiting "Hobonichi" today.  
Could it be that "Hobonichi" is both my work and my hobby?

---

*Hobonichi: Short for "Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shinbun," meaning "Almost Daily Itoi Newspaper," a popular Japanese website and company founded by the author.