How many opportunities can we create for ourselves?

Shigesato Itoi

・When it comes to things we do on our own, it's rare that there's a clear rationale or method guiding us from the start. Often, after working on something for a while, we suddenly realize, "Oh, so that's what this is about." A few years into starting "Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shimbun," I realized that perhaps I had been creating "opportunities" all along. In the grand scheme of things, opportunities seem scarce. Most things in the world are already established, and people's jobs exist to flawlessly execute these pre-existing tasks. But don't we want to try other things too? Or aren't there countless unmet needs that people have? Yet, there's neither opportunity, time, nor money to pursue them. This cycle seems to define much of the world. The reason for this might just be a sense of contentment with the status quo—"there's no need to go out of our way." After all, things are going relatively smoothly as they are. Besides, it's hard to answer the question, "Will it be profitable?"

But even if it doesn't make a profit, things that are "breaking even," that you want to try and that bring joy to others, do exist if you look for them. That's what I think an "opportunity" is. It's better to have many opportunities and to try them out. Eventually, they might combine with something else to create an even better opportunity. However, many people think opportunities are something you find rather than create, which makes them seem scarce. But when working in a team, sharing the creation, earning, and enjoyment of opportunities is advantageous for everyone. Like managing a household budget where you cover necessities like food and utilities and still have discretionary income for leisure and fashion, opportunities can be created more easily. Looking back, we have been generating opportunities in this way.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shimbun" today. I shared this thought with my colleagues in our small organization.