As autumn arrives, my mind wanders.

It might get hot again soon, but last night, I turned off the air conditioning. Autumn doesn’t stay away forever, does it? Even if tomorrow hits a sweltering 34 degrees, autumn will surely come, followed by a chilly winter. There's a tendency to lament the disappearance of the four seasons, and it's easy to nod along in agreement. Yet, autumn arrives as usual, and likely winter will too. Three months from now, we won't be strolling outside in just a t-shirt. Even a month from now, short sleeves might be unbearable. The familiar cycle of the seasons is quite remarkable, isn’t it? I’m not saying we should ignore global warming. It’s just that these familiar transitions allow us to prepare, so we handle them without much fuss or panic.

The shop I help with at “Hobo Nikkan” announced it will close for the season in mid-October. That's right, we'll no longer be able to visit Oze in winter. Occasionally, people go there for snow removal or maintenance, but that’s about it. Reading that notice prompted me to start writing this piece. Summer is blisteringly hot, and that’s a fact. Winter is freezing cold, and I agree completely. But since we know and prepare for it, it’s not a “crisis.” Speaking of Oze, you never hear complaints about rain. Why? Because everyone knows rain can be a hassle, so it's a given to bring good rain gear. Regardless of the weather forecast, everyone packs their rain gear. When it looks like rain, they suit up. Ah, it brings to mind the saying, “Forewarned is forearmed.”

This sensitivity seems to be ingrained in humans—the difference between 38 and 39.5 degrees in the summer makes the news, but we don’t flinch at a 30-degree difference between summer and winter. The size of an event and the size of the commotion it causes can be entirely different, I’ve come to realize. Sometimes, a minor burn on your fingertip causes more of a stir than a chronic illness that requires daily medication.

Thank you for visiting “Hobo Nikkan” today. People who always see the big picture have a certain coolness about them, don’t they?