Words shape thoughts, thoughts shape reality.  
by Shigesato Itoi

・Let me start with another story.  
　We took an electric bus as far as it could go, reaching the end of the road accessible by vehicles.  
　There, we stood at the entrance to the wooden path, the point beyond which only walking could take us further.  
　This was, in a sense, the gateway into the realm of Oze, and from there, we set out on foot toward "Chozogoya."  
　Wow, I thought, this feels like an enormous, sprawling mansion.  
　In tales of grand estates, the grounds are so vast that the gate is always far from the main house.  
　Imagining that every step along the path was part of the estate of "Chozogoya" made the journey delightfully amusing.  
　Even if that's not the case at all, it's all about how you choose to perceive things.

　There was a time when the top floors of skyscrapers were considered prime real estate,  
　but I once remarked that since they're vertically distant from the center (ground floor), they're actually inconvenient.  
　A hundred meters up is a hundred meters away vertically, and with elevators as the sole means of transport, it's quite impractical.  
　Again, it all depends on how you choose to see it.

　Arisugawa Park in Minato Ward belongs to my daughter.  
　I gifted it to her.  
　Those who know, know, but many likely do not.  
　However, given the size of the park, it's quite the task to manage, so Minato Ward takes care of its upkeep.  
　And since it would be sad if no one came, we've made it freely accessible to everyone.  
　Thanks to this, it seems people are enjoying it quite nicely.  
　No one can stop me from thinking this way, and since it's just a thought, it doesn't really bother anyone.

　No matter how financially strapped you might be,  
　you could think, "I've got trillions deposited at the Bank of Japan."  
　"I've resolved never to touch that money," you might tell yourself.  
　With such a mindset, you could become a person of strong will  
　(just don't say this to someone who doesn't get jokes).

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nichi" today.  
Words shape thoughts, and thoughts are free, after all.