---

Here's the translation:

Digging a hole is tough, you know. 
As a child, I would dig a hole in the sandbox. 
It looked like so much fun, just pure fun. 
But as an adult, digging a hole in the ground is tough. 
I'm not a dog, so I don't dig with my hands. 
I use tools like shovels. 
That way, I can thrust the shovel into the ground and dig out the dirt. 
However, digging requires strength. 
And carrying away the dug-out dirt is also a daunting task. 
My hands, arms, shoulders, back, waist, and legs all get tired. 
Just digging a 1 cubic meter hole takes so much strength and time. 
It's terrifying. 
If there were a hole-digging master, they might be able to dig effortlessly, 
but even then, if they had a machine for digging, 
they could dig a 1 cubic meter hole in no time. 
Maybe even a hole that would take a hole-digging master a day could be dug in an hour without breaking a sweat. 
Humans used to dig holes using their own strength and tools. 
Or they would borrow the strength of oxen or horses. 
But then, from a certain point on, humans started using steam and fossil fuel energy, 
combining tools to create machines that could dig holes. 
Humans began to work on operating those machines. 
Furthermore, they started to think about how to use those machines effectively, 
combining machines with machines, and teaching humans how to operate them, 
so they could dig holes more and more efficiently. 
That's how humans were able to dig not just holes, but also lay railroad tracks, build roads, 
and construct buildings. 
If humans had continued to rely on their own strength or that of oxen and horses, 
I don't think the modern "civilization" would have been possible. 
Suddenly, I'm back to the present, but 
the era where electronic devices do the work of digging countless holes, 
like the so-called white-collar workers who stare at their computers all day, 
has begun. 
Perhaps human work will become more about "operating" and "thinking about what kind of hole is needed." 
The era I was dreaming about has already begun. 
Thank you for coming to "almost daily" today. 
It's gentle, strong, and interesting. That's what humans do.