We’re all walking around with these colossal brains.

With the invention of the steam locomotive and the sprawling railway networks it brought, the world must have undergone tremendous changes. Then came the automobile, paving the way for roads and transforming life in countless ways once more. It became easier for people to move away from where they were born, and suddenly, distant places felt closer than ever. Similarly, the advent of the printing press meant that words and letters could be distributed en masse. The telephone and television followed, spreading far and wide. Those of us alive today just nod and think, “Oh right, that’s how it was.” Things that didn’t exist suddenly became ubiquitous, sweeping through society and bringing about unimaginable transformations. Yet, at first, it’s hard to grasp the extent of these changes.

Nowadays, it might seem like the era of groundbreaking change has come to a halt. In a way, that feels somewhat accurate. Currently, everyone’s talking about the development of "artificial intelligence" and how it’s a game-changer. I, too, believe it’s something truly extraordinary. Though it’s a specific kind of intelligence, we humans have acquired machines—opportunities, if you will—that take over the tasks our brains used to handle. It’s far beyond the shift from pickaxes and shovels to bulldozers in road construction. Tasks that took the mind ten days to complete can now be done in three minutes. But before this revolutionary change, there was an incredible amount of groundwork laid.

That preparation involved nearly everyone on the planet living with a "computer." Yes, the ones we call "smartphones." This signifies that the era of humans equipped with "massive brains" has long been in the making. It’s like we’ve exponentially enlarged the collective brainpower of humanity. Isn’t this miraculous transformation just astounding?

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nichi" today. The "brainification of society" has nearly reached completion with everyone owning a smartphone.