Is Kyoto really that hot? How's the weather over there?  
Shigesato Itoi

・During the time I spent at my house in Kyoto, many people would sympathetically ask, "Kyoto must be unbearably hot, right?" They would kindly add explanations like, "It's so muggy!" or "It's because it's in a basin, you see." Sure, Kyoto is hot in the summer, but there's a certain charm to it, and I actually enjoyed the Kyoto summer. I walked a lot, thanks to a dog who loved being outside. Admittedly, Kyoto was hotter back in the day, no doubt about it. But during those times, Tokyo was just as hot. Whether it's a basin or not, it was plenty muggy. Come to think of it, Maebashi, where I grew up, was also in a basin and hot, but it wasn't anything unbearable. Looking back, the sympathy I received with "Kyoto is hot, isn't it?" feels a bit like envy. It's like saying, "Kyoto has many great things, but it's hot," akin to, "She's beautiful, but her legs are short."

And as I reflect on it, I find myself nostalgic for those days when we talked about Kyoto's heat and the size of bees' heads. Kyoto back then seems quaint compared to now when all of Japan is scorching. Sure, there are a few places that aren't as hot, but the other day, I even saw the words "Karuizawa is too hot." Karuizawa was supposed to be a summer resort. Have we reached a time when people are searching for places cooler than Karuizawa? Oze was cool when I visited. If you venture deep enough into places like that, you'll find cooler temperatures. Although it might be a bit biased, I've heard Akagi isn't hot either. Anyway, neither Tokyo nor Paris can point fingers at Kyoto. They're just as hot, if not hotter, these days.

Will this heat persist next year and the year after? If so, we'll need to fundamentally rethink our "temperature environment." Urban life will likely have to assume long hours of air conditioning, and outdoor activities might significantly decrease. But it's not just about the obvious changes. There's already a significant impact on agriculture, fishing, and livestock. I never imagined I'd be pondering such things.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shinbun" today. I'm writing this from Kyoto in the summer, here for a visit to the family graves.