That "ordinary way of life" seems to have wandered off somewhere.  
Shigesato Itoi

・I wonder when it was that having a newspaper subscription or a milk delivery became a routine. Some households even subscribed to monthly or weekly magazines. For those who might not know, let me explain to the younger folks: "subscribing" meant having something regularly delivered to your door. I believe they collected the fees monthly. Newspapers were delivered twice a day, morning and evening, and milk was brought every day as well. Some homes had a "newspaper box" and a "milk box" by the front door.

But hold on, I'm writing this as if it's all gone, jokingly implying it's a relic of the past, but that's not entirely true. I know there are still homes that have newspaper and milk deliveries. It's just that it no longer feels "ordinary."

Back when I started "Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shinbun," there was a series I wrote. It was a title that popped into my head, and I asked Mr. Yoda from the "Manryu Copywriting School" to help with it. We published it in 1998, and in the final installment, there was a quote from a newspaper reporter pondering, "In 20 to 30 years, will nationwide home delivery still be viable?" As for milk, given that you can always buy fresh milk at the local "fridge" (convenience store), there isn't much need to have it delivered to your house.

And it's not just about obvious reasons like that. It feels like the very concept of a "household that subscribes to things" has transformed. The kind of families depicted in manga like "Sazae-san" or "Chibi Maruko-chan," living in those types of homes, seem to have dwindled significantly. Even in children's cartoons, you rarely see those kinds of homes anymore, and they don't seem to have milk or newspaper deliveries. You don't see office workers drinking milk on the train platform anymore either.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shinbun" again today.  
"Ordinary scenery" always turns into "nostalgic scenery" eventually.