How to Navigate Relationships with the Opposite Sex  
by Shigesato Itoi

・I can't quite remember when it was, but I was having one of those casual chats with a friend. He was a guy with abundant talent and a bit of a reckless streak—perhaps a little selfish at times—but at his core, he was a genuinely nice guy. He had his fair share of missteps when it came to relationships with women. "I've learned a lot from my teachers and parents, but no one ever taught me how to deal with women," he said, with a peculiar sincerity that made me chuckle. I thought, "Isn't that the case for everyone?" and couldn't help but think that there's no one who actually teaches such things. I wanted to tell him that I, too, hadn't been taught and had to learn the hard way—through embarrassment and mistakes, picking up lessons little by little. I wondered if he genuinely believed such things could be taught, which made him seem both ridiculously earnest and amusing. That moment has stuck with me ever since.

It's because that memory lingered that, now, I find myself considering something else. Perhaps parents or teachers don't need to be overly intrusive about how to interact with the opposite sex, but could it be that they should at least impart some fundamental principles? "Letting nature take its course" seems to be the norm, so no one really gets taught, and thus no one teaches. When people hear about "relationships with the opposite sex," many immediately think of "sex education." But that's not it—it's not just about sex. If we leave everything to novels or dramas about love, the authors' viewpoints might end up replacing our manners and rules. I wonder if there might be some timeless lessons, like "this is something you should always respect." If someone asked me, "Do you even understand what that is?" I probably couldn't give a solid answer. But I believe there are important promises or agreements we should uphold. I wonder what thoughts this stirs in those reading this.

Thank you for visiting "Almost Daily" today. There are surely many things that ought to be taught.