A Childhood Dream of Becoming an Inventor  
by Shigesato Itoi

・It might sound like a joke now, but there was a time when I dreamt of being an inventor. I had forgotten about it for the longest time, but the memory suddenly resurfaced.

When I was in elementary school, there were many "biographies of great people" available for children. The children's section of libraries and bookstores was filled with names like Nightingale, Lincoln, and Gandhi. Among these, I picked up the biography of the inventor "Edison." In the book tailored for young readers, Edison was portrayed as a poor and peculiar child who eventually became known as the "Wizard of Menlo Park." The incandescent light bulb, the phonograph, and the motion picture camera—all were Edison's inventions. I thought this was pretty amazing. Sure, being a baseball player or an astronaut sounded great, but I felt those were beyond my reach. The idea of a job where I could invent things seemed more attainable. So, I read books with titles like "Tales of Inventions and Discoveries" and spent time pondering my own inventions. I had no clue how one actually became an inventor, and I didn't know any inventors personally, but even as an adult, I found myself thinking up inventions. I have no idea about the status of the rights now, but I think I secured utility models for things like a "system for karaoke rooms to communicate with each other" and a "display mechanism that guides in all directions." And this was neither a hobby nor a job.

・Come to think of it, inventors often appear in children's manga. Inventions can drastically alter the course of a story. Given that I love both manga and inventions, that influence lingers, even in my games. During the development of the game MOTHER, Nintendo’s then-president, Mr. Yamauchi, suggested ending the TV commercial with "Invented by Shigesato Itoi!" but I politely declined with a chuckle. Reflecting on it, I've always been doing things akin to inventing. Maybe I should study Edison a bit more.

Thank you for visiting "Almost Daily" today. Manga and inventions are my two pillars. I'm glad I remembered that.