We live in an era where everyone creates their own "space" and "organization."  
- Shigesato Itoi

・Not too long ago, these "spaces" were something given to us.  
For instance, if you were someone who wanted to make music,  
you needed to be recognized by a record company and secure a contract to have a "space" for releasing records.  
To become known to many, you had to gain the attention of TV, newspapers, or magazines and seize opportunities to appear in those "spaces" to spread your work widely.  
If you wanted to draw manga, you couldn’t publish your work unless you brought it to a publisher or won an award to earn the "space" of printed pages.  
The same was true for novels and essays.  
This system wasn't necessarily a bad thing;  
the "value judgment" of media holding "space" could ensure a certain level of quality.  
However, it's also true that the limited availability of "spaces" restricted the growth and proliferation of "works" and "artists."

But now, you can create "spaces" right around you.  
Whether it's music, art, or stories, as long as you create something, the "space" to present it is right there in front of you.  
This was unimaginable in a world without the internet.  
Now, "spaces" have become something that belongs to everyone.

With this shift, how you place your "work" in a "space (medium)" and what kind of "space" you develop has become an essential part of creative activity.  
We've moved from a time of leaving such tasks to experts to an era where we do these things ourselves.  
Even if you don't do it alone, you can rely on "comrades" to do it together.  
In essence, it's a time where everyone is figuring out how to organize.  
Of course, there will be those who fail, and there will be those who succeed precisely because of this era.  
But when you consider the "space" itself as part of the "work," the scale of what you want to do and can do expands, and being able to act on your own judgment is exciting.  
Moreover, even with a casual commitment, the possibilities are abundant.  
"Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shimbun" might be an ancestor of this approach.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shimbun" today.  
If there's no place, just start right where you are.