Conversations with the Young and Very Young  
by Shigesato Itoi

・"Living means creating memories." If that's true, then this day gave me a memory of a kind I'd never experienced before. It all came together through a mix of fate, chance, and a natural flow. Recently, I turned "Kiju-chan (77)," and I found myself in a sort of "roundtable discussion (?)" with a group of sixth graders. Despite having lived a long life, this was a first for me. 

We sat in a circle with a dozen or so sixth graders from an elementary school, nestled at the bottom of a long slope from Mount Akagi. Although some questions had been prepared in advance, I decided to speak spontaneously, letting whatever came to mind guide our conversation.

The theme of our gathering was something like, "Becoming an adult seems kind of scary." The children weren't particularly thrilled about the prospect of growing up to work as adults. They said that the adults they saw didn’t seem to be enjoying their work. I thought to myself, "I get it!" because I felt the same way as a child. I used to imagine working as an adult to be so daunting that I even cried at the thought of having a job. I couldn't find any dreams or hopes in the idea of becoming an adult. I used to think I was unique in this, but now I wonder—do today's elementary school kids feel the same way?

But the reason they wanted to hear from me was because they wished to meet an adult who seems to enjoy their work. Being from Maebashi at the foot of Akagi, and having created things like "Hobo no Eki AKAGI," their teacher apparently thought I seemed to be doing fun things. How curious that a child who once cried at the thought of working now appears to enjoy it. I wanted to talk about this transformation, which is why I decided to meet with the sixth graders. I'll probably share more about this later on. Maybe it will even make it onto "Hobo Nichi."

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nichi" today. I must say, I spoke more carefully and earnestly than I would with my own children.