Before I knew it, I was utterly captivated by MLB.

・Somehow, I've memorized so many of the Dodgers' players' names. Even though the Phillies' manager admits, "We don't have many famous players," I've come to realize they're a formidable team that plays incredible baseball. It's a thrilling matchup—I can't take my eyes off it. But the games are in the early morning Japan time, which is a bit of a problem. I wonder what my past self would think of this version of me, truly invested in all of this.

"Can American baseball really entertain you that much? In Japan, the pro baseball league is about to have the third and second placed teams face off, and the winner will challenge the league champion. The league winners then compete in the Japan Series to determine the national champion," I imagine my past self saying. But somehow, that feels a bit underwhelming now. Sure, part of it is because my favorite team is struggling, but that's not the only reason.

For instance, when Murakami from the Swallows hits a spectacular home run, you hear people wistfully saying, "That was probably his last big hit in Japan." Everyone is cheering on Japanese players making a mark in the Major Leagues, and when they're highly praised there, it feels like someone from your hometown is being celebrated. It's a pride that makes you go, "They've done it again." Maybe that's why, despite the excitement, there's a touch of sadness too. The more players excel over there, the more they disappear from "Japanese pro baseball." 

Sure, we can console ourselves by thinking they're doing great over there—and I do tell myself that. But still, when did I start wanting to watch Shohei Ohtani more than Kazuma Okamoto? When did I begin fixating on Roki Sasaki on the screen more than Shosei Togoh? At this point, I probably don't deserve to write for "Sports Hochi" anymore. Will I snap out of it if the Yomiuri Giants start an unbelievable winning streak? Whatever the case, right now, I'm eagerly looking forward to the MLB playoffs.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nikkan" again today. It's practically the World Series finals. Have the Dodgers won two games already?