Boasting About Aging, Pretending to Be a Grown-Up  
Shigesato Itoi

・Generally, people start talking about the signs of aging they never imagined once they hit their forties. For men, it's often the little health warnings. They talk about the weaker stream when they pee, how brutal an all-nighter can be, getting winded after a bit of exertion, or struggling to read the fine print. And they do it with a subtle air of pride. Looking back, I think it's a kind of vanity. It's like they want to show off to their younger selves or the younger crowd, trying to play the wise elder. They say things like, "Ah, youth is wonderful," while secretly seeing themselves as the "real adults." That's what talking about aging in your forties is mostly about.

Once you pass fifty, you start living with the understanding that it's not just that you "can't do it anymore," but that you're already "unable to do it." When you can't see small print, you've quietly bought reading glasses. You start controlling your diet based on the chronic conditions found during regular check-ups. You seriously avoid doing anything too reckless. Even if you don't want to, you can't help but think about having passed life's halfway point.

By the time you hit sixty, it's no longer about vanity. I clearly remember something a senior of mine, who turned sixty about ten years before me, said: "If you find yourself being popular after sixty, it's just sympathy, not like in your fifties." He was blowing a bit of senior wind my way, just as I had turned fifty.

Yesterday, I had an implant dental procedure. For two and a half hours, both the dentist and I gave it our all. Thirty years ago, I was told, "This will last thirty years," and now that time is up. The surrounding conditions had deteriorated. Once this new work is complete, it should be good for another thirty years. But as for me, the one who owns this mouth, how about another thirty years? The new construction might turn out to be pointless, but here I am, doing it anyway.

Thank you for visiting "Almost Daily" again today. Yet, both yesterday and today, we're still making more memories.