Transliterated Japanese idioms used:

* 原風景 (gensōkei): lit. "original landscape" but connotes a deeply ingrained, nostalgic sense of scenery.
* やっぱり (yappari): an informal way of saying "as expected" or "after all."
* そんなこと昔から多くの人が言ってたことなのにね (sonna koto mukashi kara ōku no hito ga itte ta koto na no ni ne): "but people have been saying that for a long time, haven't they?" spoken in a casual tone.

---

Here is the translation:

What kind of scenery do you envision? I suppose it's like one's original landscape. 
The scenery from one's childhood, or the one that symbolically emerges in one's heart. 
I think everyone has that kind of scenery. 
When people return to their hometown, they say, "It's still so comforting," and elderly people wish to sleep once again amidst that scenery. 
In my youth, I didn't realize that such scenery existed. 
I thought I had seen various sceneries, and my favorite scenery could be reproduced in my brain. 
However, no matter how many sceneries there are, the one that inevitably emerges in one's mind is, after all, unique to each individual. 
It's only recently that I've come to realize this (although many people have been saying this for a long time, haven't they? 
The concept of "original landscape" has existed for a long time). 
Lately, I've come to think that the plain with mountains visible to the north and west might have been my own scenery. 
Mt. Akagi, Mt. Myōgi, and Mt. Haruna, the so-called Jōmō Sanzan, have always been like the backdrop of my life. 
It's a rough way of putting it, but people raised here tend to be conscious of the plain, the river's flow, and Tokyo, but find it difficult to consider what lies beyond the sea. 
On the other hand, people raised on the Pacific coast might easily imagine a completely different world on the other side of the ocean. 
It's not a question of which is better or worse, but if we consider humans as living beings with individual thoughts, then scenery is the medium that expands their activities. 
Someone raised in a mountain village might say the sky was like a crack. 
Someone born on an island might say they felt fear at the vastness of the sea. 
Can the scenery that people naturally envision be replaced? 
What kind of scenery is the ideal for each individual? 
I want to be more aware of the "scenery" that cannot be contained within a display. 
In this era, where we're constantly gazing at artificial objects and symbols, I'd like to think a bit more about the "grand medium" of scenery. 
Thank you for coming to "almost daily" today. 
Perhaps even the desire to create "scenery" in high-rise buildings is a human desire.