Cars really aren't so bad.  
Shigesato Itoi

・These days, it seems young people aren't getting their driver's licenses.  
  It takes a lot of time and money to get one.  
  And even if they do, they say there's no chance to drive.  
  Especially for young folks living in the city—there's nowhere to park,  
  and there are so many other ways to get around  
  that owning a car just doesn't make sense.

  For someone who was once a "young man of the past,"  
  the kind of car you drove was, well,  
  like a samurai's sword.  
  Whether you had a car or not,  
  there was this notion that if you didn't at least have a license,  
  you'd never get a girlfriend.  
  But you know, those "young men of the past" become "middle-aged men of the present."  
  Eventually, they turn into "old men" who are encouraged to give up their licenses.  
  In the end, they become just like "young people these days."  
  No need for a car, no need for a license,  
  getting by just fine with other transportation options.

  But you know, even if it seems out of touch with the times,  
  there are some good things about cars,  
  unrelated to not being able to get a girlfriend.  
  Yesterday, we had our annual gathering,  
  with everyone coming together.  
  Every year around this time,  
  we find an excuse like "Mr. Itoi's birthday" to go somewhere  
  or enjoy some good food,  
  and this year, of course, it was "Hobo's Station AKAGI."  
  We took three tour buses and a few cars.  
  I went with two other guys in my car.  
  I drove on the way there, and Mr. N drove us back.  
  It was fun, chatting the whole way.  
  You can't talk so freely on a bullet train or a regular train.  
  On the way back, we hit some traffic, so it took just under three hours.  
  I played "great songs" from my iPhone at full blast.  
  We listened, sang, praised the music—it was like being in a karaoke room the whole way.  
  You can't do that without a car.  
  It was so much fun, though I might have strained my throat a bit.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nichi" today.  
We enjoyed the music, the autumn leaves, and even some grilled manjū.