Mandarins, My Apologies for the Hassle  
Shigesato Itoi

・I just don't understand myself sometimes.

Take mandarins, for example.  
When I think about eating one, the first thing that comes to mind is, "What a hassle."  
But hold on a second, me.  
All you have to do is peel the outer skin, pop each section into your mouth, and that's it.  
You can eat the inner membrane or not; it's up to you.  
You can pick off those little white strands if you want, or leave them be.  
Any uneaten bits can be discarded on the inside of the peel.  
Ah. As soon as I start lecturing myself about how simple it is, the whole thing begins to feel like a chore.  
If I really detested the hassle, I could just peel the skin and gobble it down as is, but I can't quite bring myself to be that wild.  
I realize I'm trying to eat it as neatly as possible.  
So, is it actually a hassle?  
Is something this simple really that much of a bother?

If that's the case, I might as well give up on all other fruits, too.  
Take apples, for instance—you need a knife to peel them.  
Watermelons are a pain starting from the chilling process.  
And grapes, you have to eat them one by one  
(these days, some even eat them with the skin on).  
Things like papayas and mangoes are a real ordeal;  
if you slice them carelessly, juice spills everywhere.  
Mandarins are actually on the easier end of the spectrum.  
Yet here I am, genuinely claiming they're a hassle?  
What kind of lazy person am I, really?  
I can spend ages playing long, drawn-out games.  
I've even read books that are practically the epitome of "hassle."

So, because there are more and more people like me, everything's being "improved" to be hassle-free.  
Is that really a good thing? I can't help but wonder.  
I don't want to forget the care it takes to eat a nicely cooked fish.  
And yet, here I am, staring at a mandarin in front of me, thinking it's too much trouble to eat.

Thank you for visiting "Almost Daily" again today.  
If a book called "The Study of Hassle" ever comes out, I'd definitely want to read it.