Translation:
I have a dream to turn Tokyo's city center into a forest.
It's an impossible thing, but...
From Harajuku and Yoyogi around the Yamanote Line,
the greenery of Yoyogi Park and the Meiji Shrine would spread out
as far as the Imperial Palace, and that would be interesting.
In reality, it's a conversation that can't be taken seriously,
with things like "We'd have to remove buildings" and "What about the roads and railways?"
But, you know, I've heard stories like "Harajuku used to be all rice fields and farms"
or "There were foxes and raccoons around," and that's fascinating.
The name "Harajuku" itself means "original inn" [fn. 原の宿], you know.
The area I lived in was called "Onoda."
Imagine a great river of greenery flowing through the city center,
like the scenery of Okutama flowing inward along the Yamanote Line.
You might think, "What's the point of this?" but wouldn't it be great?
A city like that would be really cool, unlike the usual monsters and panic.
I'd love to see that kind of scenery, even in a CG animation.
In near-future stories, it's always Tokyo after a disaster, with ruins and burned-out fields everywhere.
But if we were to plant greenery and add some decorations, that would be nice, too, I think.
However, having a forest or a vast grassland right in the city
would be the opposite of a "bad dream" – it would be a "good dream"!
How could such a silly dream come true?
If we were to flip our thinking and plan a city with a forest at its center,
it might just be possible.
There's no need to decide on a bustling city center, after all.
A city that incorporates mountains, sea, forest, or desert
would be a very artificial plan, wouldn't it?
In manga, novels, or movies, we can do it hypothetically, of course.
But even if we try and fail, that would be a bad ending, and I'd still want to see it.
A theme park as a crystallization of artificial dreams is nice, too,
but I want to see a dream that's hard to imagine, like this one.
Thanks for coming to "Almost Daily" again today!
Just being able to give an example of a "good dream" like this feels great.

Note: 
The essay uses several Japanese idioms and cultural references that may not be familiar to English speakers. A footnote is included for the idiom "原の宿" (harano yado), which means "original inn" but is used here to explain the origin of the name "Harajuku."