*Thoughts*
Toru Irie

・I have a lot of thoughts.
　Sometimes I ponder, sometimes I go on tangents,
　and there are lots of things I am learning.

　I think about things that are out of my control.
　I find myself thinking about things that I can do nothing about.
　I think about how I’ll never be able to make up for the things I am learning so late in the game.

　But, I will never stop thinking.
　I will never stop pondering,
　and there is no stopping my desire to learn.

　And, as always, I am moved.
　Sometimes I move just a little,
　and sometimes I am moved without knowing why.

　This is how I live.
　It is a joy that there are people who move along with me,
　who think and ponder and learn with me.

　It has been 27 years since I started writing “Hobo Nikkan Koko” and when I look back, I am astonished at how far I have come.

　But, that is only because there were people who were by my side,
　who supported me all along the way.

　Every day, after I write something and post it,
　I say a set phrase, “Thank you for coming today,”
　but this is very sincere.
　Even if I am here and there and add or subtract things,
　I am happy if you will accompany me and find it amusing.

Thank you for coming today.
This is my unconventional greeting for the year. I hope it suits you.

---

I have many thoughts.

Sometimes I ponder; sometimes I ramble.
I have much I am learning.

I think of things I cannot change.
I think of things I cannot do anything about.
I think of how, even now, I am learning so much too late.

But I will never stop thinking.
I will never stop pondering,
and I cannot quell my desire to learn.

And, as always, I am moved.
Sometimes I am moved just a little.
Sometimes I am moved without knowing why.

My living is this.
It is a joy that there are people who move in step with me,
who think and ponder and learn with me.

It has been 27 years since I began writing "Hobo Nikkan Koko," and looking back, I am astounded at how far I have come.

But this is only because there were people who stayed by my side,
who supported me every step of the way.

Every day, after I write and post,
I say, "thank you for coming today,"
and I mean it sincerely.

Even if I leap about here and there, add or detract,
I am happy if you will accompany me and find amusement.

Thank you for coming today.
This is my unconventional new year's greeting. I hope it pleases you.