Peach Blossoms, Let's Have a Chat  
Shigesato Itoi

・Some people may have noticed, while others have forgotten without even realizing it. Today is March 3rd, the famous "Peach Festival." It's the centerpiece of the Hinamatsuri, a day to display hina dolls and enjoy chirashi sushi, hina-arare, hishimochi, and shirozake. I remember it as knowledge, as memories. Yet, somehow, many of us let it pass by unnoticed. Perhaps it's different for households with young girls.

I pondered why this day is so easily forgotten. One reason might be the absence of TV commercials for hina dolls. Perhaps the sales aren't strong enough to warrant the kind of heavy advertising we saw in the past. For starters, houses are smaller now. Once you decide that just the top-tier male and female dolls will suffice, you no longer need the entire entourage of the three court ladies or the five musicians. Naturally, you wouldn't buy the accompanying accessories and furnishings either. The hassle of setting them up and putting them away adds to it. It's similar to how funerals have become small family affairs—quiet and private. In other words, it's no longer a festival everyone observes.

And then there's the peach. Don't forget, it's the Peach Festival. But have you seen peach blossoms blooming in your neighborhood? Unless you're in peach-growing areas like Yamanashi or Okayama, you probably haven't noticed peach flowers. I can’t even tell the difference between plum and cherry blossoms. I know they're all part of the rose family, though. Soon, cherry blossoms will be blooming, stealing the spotlight. Yet, when it comes to eating peaches, everyone pays attention.

This year, I remembered. Not that it means much, but while ignoring Valentine's and ehomaki, I recalled the Peach Festival and sighed, "I had forgotten." Peach blossoms, I'm sorry, but there's nothing more for me to say. If I remember again next year, I’d like to share similar thoughts.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shinbun" today. Surely, later this month, the cherry blossoms will be in full bloom again.