Heading into today with a "nothing special" mindset.
Shigesato Itoi

・There are days when I know I have to wake up early the next morning. On those nights, I want to get to bed early. Yet, because of my commitment to this once-called "Today's Darling," I can't hit the sack until I've finished writing the next day's piece. You'd think I'd start writing earlier, but when I do, it only ends up taking longer. Sometimes, I consider jotting down a few notes during the day when I have a moment, and then fleshing it out later. But, honestly, that never seems to work. Even when it does work out, it's not anything remarkable, so it's not like it makes a big difference. Usually, I end up tossing those half-finished drafts away. Embracing the act of discarding them, I try to write something fresh in the middle of the night, but it rarely turns out to be anything special.

It's been almost 28 years, right? After writing every day for so long, you'd think I'd get better at it, but I haven't. If this were like the "conversations" I'm currently serializing, when the phrase "a little better" pops up, I'd want to interrupt with, "Like Akina Nakamori, right?" And then, maybe someone would chime in with, "Akina Nakamori sings, but the lyrics are by Etsuko Kisugi," and I'd love for someone to make that witty remark. However, Shinbo isn't that well-versed in such details, so he'd probably just laugh. Nagata-san has a wealth of outdated music knowledge but likely hasn't delved much into pop songs. If I could, I'd endlessly chatter about irrelevant things like "holding the sleeve, just looking down" or "I wonder if Akina-san has gotten better?" But there's no one to talk to.

I might get carried away, saying stuff like, "Was Iyo still 16 then?" and "No, she was 17, though not anymore," indulging in these trivial exchanges.

But look, I've already written this much, so it should be enough. I can finish up and go to bed early. Still, I often reflect on how I've been getting by with a "nothing special" attitude for so long. Deep down, I realize I'm just a "nothing special" guy.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shinbun" today. It's strange, though; while I don't mind thinking that about myself, I wouldn't want others to say it about me. Curious, isn't it?