Dogs, Children, and an Adult Playground  
by Shigesato Itoi

・There's this thing called a "dog park."  
  It's a place where dogs can run around without a leash.  
  Since there are other dogs, the owners keep a watchful eye to prevent any scuffles.  
  No cars pass through a "dog park," and there are no people with other agendas or those who dislike dogs.  
  It's enclosed by a chain-link fence, so the dogs can't dash off somewhere far away.  
  There's no playground equipment or even a roof to shield from rain—at most, there's a water fountain.  
  When you think about it, all that's here is the fence and the plot of land.  
  In a sense, a "dog park" is essentially nothing.

  I remember when my granddaughter was a little younger.  
  Whenever someone asked her, "What do you want to do?" she would always shout, "The park!"  
  She wanted to go to the park, to be in the park.  
  There are slides, swings, sandboxes—all sorts of playground equipment in parks.  
  Of course, she made good use of these, but as long as she had someone to play with, it seemed she didn't need much else.  
  Just the other day, kids were playing together in a large garden, and they invited the adults to join in a game of tag.  
  When you think about it, this too is a safe space to run around freely.  
  Perhaps parks are the "dog parks" for children.

  Now, where is the "dog park" for adults?  
  Perhaps it's like an after-school classroom, a café during break time, or a cozy pub you can drop by.  
  Such places might serve as an adult's "dog park."  
  But with adults, it seems like there needs to be some kind of game rules, services, drinks, or tools involved.  
  Still, wouldn't a "park" work just fine for adults too?  
  Even just a fence and a piece of land would do—in other words, as long as you can feel "this is my space,"  
  it becomes a "dog park" that frees adults as well.  
  Whether you run around or not is up to you, and it's okay if it's uneven.  
  You can stay still or get lost in conversation—it doesn't matter.  
  Where is such a place for me, I wonder?

Thank you for visiting "Hobonichi" again today.  
I'd love to play with kids, but please, no games of tag for me.