Books and the Art of Conversation  
by Shigesato Itoi

・I buy a lot of books.  
  Of those, I read a fair amount thoroughly,  
  some I skim through the table of contents or the afterword,  
  and many remain on the shelf, waiting to be read someday.  
  The reason I buy more books than I can possibly read  
  is simply because I feel like I should.  
  They seem interesting or promise to reveal something I want to know.  
  I want to have these at hand because, compared to other hobbies or amusements,  
  books are relatively cheap, and I have this anxious need  
  to stay informed about things.

  I'm at an age where I'm aware that my energy and time are limited,  
  so I don't really need to know everything or have countless interests.  
  Yet, I keep buying books because I have so many fond memories  
  of how reading has enriched my life.  
  And when I look at my bookshelf, thinking,  
  "That book has the answers I seek," somehow it eases my anxieties.  
  It's probably a symptom of modern society,  
  like a man with a dangerous life collecting model guns.  
  Although that's not quite right.  
  But still, I rely heavily on books.

  However, I don't think books alone have shaped who I am.  
  There are plenty of people who have been "raised" by books, but I'm not one of them.  
  While I've certainly taken in books as a kind of nourishment,  
  the primary ingredients that make up who I am are people.  
  Engaging in open-hearted conversations with others  
  has taught me immeasurably more wisdom and perception  
  than absorbing words from a page ever could.  
  Friends who were always near, teachers, acquaintances,  
  colleagues and mentors after entering the workforce—  
  oh, and many younger friends and companions, too.  
  The richness within me is filled with those who opened their hearts  
  and shared their stories with me.  
  It's simply something I've always loved to do.  
  That's probably why I still feel like I'm in my growing years.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shinbun" today.  
Perhaps, the key lies in the phrase "open-hearted."