In a world where almost everything can be found if you search for it.

・It's never the case that all 100 people think the same thing. Even when you're convinced of something yourself, if you find that 50% of the world agrees with you, then you can consider that a pretty significant number.

Even if you're absolutely sure that "Oden's all about the daikon," you might wonder how many people actually agree with that. The same goes for those who might say "it's the egg." While konnyaku might be synonymous with oden, not that many people would choose it as their top favorite (at least, according to my neighborhood survey). There's no universally correct answer to the question, "What's the quintessential oden ingredient?" So, if you confidently declare, "Everyone loves the egg," and then ask around, you might be surprised by the answers of "shirataki" or "chikuwa" that you hear. A narrow-minded person might even get angry, thinking, "How outrageous!"

To reiterate, it's impossible for 100 people to think the same thing, and we must understand that. We can't just assume that everyone wants the same kind of world or believes in a certain way. Outlandish opinions and unexpected thoughts exist in this world, for better or worse.

People often say, "Ego-searching (looking up information about yourself) is bad for your mental health, so it's better to stop." That's because it's like deliberately seeking out information that might hurt you. If you go out of your way to explore back alleys and side streets, you're bound to find things that were always there. And focusing on those things can sometimes throw off your mental balance. Getting caught up in a whirlwind of agreement can be dangerous, but so can fixating only on the dark spots on the wall.

Nowadays, we live in a time where you can easily see the thoughts of not just 100, but millions, if you choose to look. Perhaps, for humans, this is indeed a strange phenomenon.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nichi" again today. We must be careful of knowing too much and wanting to know too much.