The Tale of Dangling Shoelaces  
Shigesato Itoi

Today is the grand opening of ・. Yesterday, there was a preview event for stakeholders and the media. The curtain is finally rising, and while I'm sure plenty of information is streaming in from the site, I’d like to share a little behind-the-scenes story from the ground.

When it comes to openings, a purification ceremony is a must, right? And when you think of Akagi, it's got to be Akagi Shrine (this shrine boasts an incredible 1,200-year history). This time, we had the honor of hosting a special ceremony at "Hobo no Eki AKAGI." I've been through these Shinto ceremonies many times, yet each time, I find myself wondering, "Now, how does this go again?" You see, you can't just stand there and watch during a Shinto ritual. There’s a part where you offer a tamagushi*.

Somehow, I often end up being the first in line. This means I can't simply copy the person before me. I have these fragmented memories like "rotate the sakaki branch to the right" or "two bows, two claps, one bow," but I'm never confident! You know, I'm the kind of guy who's hopeless with procedures. But I tell myself to do my best, brace myself, and wait for my name to be called.

So, when my turn came, I knew the basics: present the sakaki branch towards the deity. But then, the "platform-like thing" where I was supposed to place the tamagushi wasn’t in front of me! At this spot, I’d have to remove my shoes to step up. But my shoes don’t just slip off easily, especially not while holding a sakaki branch. So, I preemptively loosened my shoelaces, ready to slip them off and on with ease. Secretly, I let the laces dangle to make my shoes easy to remove. Just then, my name was called, and the "platform-like thing" was moved right in front of me from its previous spot.

I know, it really wasn’t a big deal, but there I was, with my shoelaces flapping, receiving the tamagushi. It’s such a trivial detail that it wouldn’t be mentioned in any "text broadcast." It was a little slip of the ceremony only visible to those in the front row.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nichi" today as well. Congratulations on the opening of "Hobo no Eki AKAGI," let’s keep things fun and vibrant!

---
*Tamagushi: A sacred offering made of a sakaki branch decorated with strips of paper, used in Shinto rituals.