Memories of Once Being a Child  
Shigesato Itoi

・Children have a knack for concocting "strange ideas," and those very peculiar notions somehow end up nourishing their souls as they grow.

Since it’s long past, I can admit this honestly now: I used to entertain the idea that scouts from professional baseball (especially the Giants) might be watching me. I was particularly mindful of this possibility whenever I was by the Tone River, hurling stones at the bridge piers—what I considered my pitching practice. Kids tend to think, "If it's not entirely impossible, then it might just be possible."

I often drew on hard ground with soapstone. When you persistently color in a certain area, the ground becomes slick, as if waterproofed. One day, while engaging in this activity under the rain, I “discovered” that “rain doesn’t fall on the slick parts.” I stumbled upon this grand principle of the universe, yet I had no words to express it, so I’ve kept it to myself. It's been nearly seventy years now. Perhaps due to guarding this secret, my mind occasionally entertains twisted thoughts like “a waterproof surface doesn’t get wet.” It’s akin to believing that “a bulletproof vest repels bullets.” These are wide-of-the-mark ideas, part of what makes me unique. Incidentally, I found out I can buy soapstone online, so I ordered some. I thought of giving it to my granddaughter, though she probably won’t want it.

Books on "inventions" were my absolute favorites, and I was always brimming with the desire to invent. In third grade, a classmate won a prize in an "Invention Contest." It was blatantly obvious that his father had made it. Though it frustrated me, I couldn’t voice my feelings. I didn’t use that frustration as a springboard to strive harder either. Yet, I remember it vividly, clear as day. Children are indeed the raw material of adults, I realize now.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nikkan Itoi Shinbun" today. The lies we tell as kids often linger surprisingly long in our memories.