We’re holding a wake for Kuma-chan.

After someone passes away, I tend not to talk about it much. If there’s someone with a microphone at the funeral, I’ll avoid them, slip away. I don't want to say or write anything. Eventually, with time, I might remember and reminisce. The time when the person "is" and the time when they "were" are almost seamlessly connected, with hardly any difference. It's too soon to start going on about this and that.

But just this once, I want to talk about Kuma-chan. I mean, I was actually planning to go see him on April 19th. He wasn’t feeling well, so I thought I’d visit him in Nara once he was discharged, under the guise of a get-well visit, to share some silly stories. As if to say, "Oh, you’ve bounced back again, huh?" We’d joke around with, "We’re both pretty stubborn, aren’t we?" Shinbo was coming too, so it felt like we were setting up for the sequel to the last chapter we promised. But since I wanted to do it, we decided to go ahead. I’d almost booked the hotel and the bullet train tickets. But then came the news that his discharge would be delayed, and he’d have to continue treatment. We decided to postpone the trip, thinking we’d reschedule. Apparently, he even said, "We can chat nonsense even in the hospital," but we figured we’d wait until he was properly discharged.

Then, what was supposed to be a postponement turned into a cancellation. I thought to myself, "That’s a bit early, isn’t it?" If I could reach out to him on the other side, that’s what I’d want to say. He’d probably reply with something like, "Pretty much as planned, huh?" Maybe it was "pretty much," but it was a shame. I would have liked one more session of idle chatter before twilight fell.

I’ve always thought of myself as someone who wants to be lively at wakes. I’ll do the same for Kuma-chan. I’ll recall all sorts of memories and laugh a lot. Though he might be a bit distant, I’ll fill in the gaps with imagination and hold a lively wake all by myself.

Thank you for visiting "Hobo Nikkan" today. Friends passing away—that’s the truest sign of aging, isn’t it?